The most terrible disaster which has happened at sea for many years occurred on Tuesday morning; near to the harbour of Halifax, Nova Scotia. The screw steamer Atlantic, of the White Star line, in attempting to make that harbour, was run ashore on a rocky headland.
The ship struck heavily several times and immediately rolled off the rock and sank, carrying down with her, it is believed, about 750 persons out of 1,000 who were on board when she left the Mersey.

The suddenness of the disaster gave no time to prepare the steamer's boats for rescuing passengers and crew. A frantic attempt was made to launch one boat; but it was dragged down by the ship, and all who got into it perished.

After the ship sank, some of her upper rigging remained above water, and a rope was passed to the shore, by which between 200 and 900 persons were saved.

Not a woman or a child was saved; and hundreds were drowned, without having even had time to get out of their berths in saloon or steerage. The captain is one of the survivors.

It is said that he was putting into Halifax because the supply of coal was running short, while another account has it that the vessel had received some damage to her machinery.

The immediate cause of the dreadful disaster, on a coast so well known, is not yet explained; but it is said that Captain Williams, or the officer in charge, mistook a light shown on one point for that which is displayed on another.

The most painful excitement was created in Liverpool yesterday morning by the news of the loss. For some time the vagueness of the telegram received raised hopes of the disaster having been greatly exaggerated.

The short despatch only definitely stated the loss of the ship by running ashore on Meagher's Head, about twenty miles off Halifax. No mention was made in this telegram of any want of coal, which might necessitate the steamer's landing at Halifax.

Indeed it was stated that she had coal enough for at least another week. The conjecture that received most assent among those experienced in the navigation of the coast was that the steamer had had her machinery disabled, and was making for Prospect Harbour, a small port on the south-east of Nova Scotia, nine miles east of St Margaret's Bay.

The latest New York papers describe the weather as fearful near the American coast within the last fortnight, several of the ocean-going steamers having with the utmost difficulty made port in safety.