A sanguinary and obstinate insurrection has outbroken in Paris in consequence of the determination of the government to clear the atollers nationaux of the immense numbers of workmen who have homes supported at the expense of the taxpayers.
This revolt has at last been quashed, but the fighting continued for four days and the combatants seem to have been animated with the most obstinate fury. Torrents of blood have flowed, but the accounts are so various that it is impossible to state the number of killed and wounded.

One report estimates the total number of slain at 11,000 but others speak of smaller numbers, although it is owned on all hands that it has been one of the most bloody struggles ever decided in the streets of Paris.

The national guard are said to have at first turned out reluctantly, and to have acted with hesitation; but at least they seem to have fought with the utmost determination and energy.

The statements respecting the garde mobile vary, as some reports affirm that a portion of it showed symptoms of disaffection, and even refused to act against the insurgents; but other accounts speak in the highest terms of its courage and energy. The troops of the line appear never to have wavered or hesitated for a moment.

Apprehensions that tranquillity would be seriously disturbed were entertained on several days at the beginning of last week; and on Wednesday evening, crowds of workmen assembled on the Pont Neuf, in the Rue de Bac, and in the Place d'Assembleé Nationale; but no violence was resorted to for the dispersion of the attrompement.

A collision took place in the Rue Rambuteau, where the troops were ordered a group who resisted, and several of whom were wounded. Pursuant to their determination to diminish the number of ourriers, and the danger which their presence in such masses in Paris threatened to the public peace, the government directed that a first draft of three thousand of them, natives of the provinces, should be obliged to leave Paris for their homes on Thursday.

They were supplied with money for their start, and with feuilles de route, or orders for board and lodging at stated posts of the journey. They left town certainly; but they halted immediately outside the barriers, where wine is six sous cheaper than in the city, and there they spent a portion of the day, and a large share of their travelling expenses.

About three o'clock, a body of those who had left by the Barriere de Fontainbleau, amounting to 400, returned to town and paid a visit to the executive government at the Palace of the Luxembourg.

After some time, M. Marie presented himself to hear their catalogue of grievances. He was addressed by the chief of a delegation of four from among them, but M. Marie refused to hear him, observing that, as that individual had been among those who attacked the national assembly on the 13th of May, he could not recognise him as the organ of the operatives and, turning to the others, he said" "You arte not the slaves of this man, you can explain your grievances."

M. Marie, after having patiently listened to them, entreated them not to suffer themselves to be led into rebellion against the authorities, and assured them that the government was occupied constantly with the consideration of measures for the improvement of their condition.

The delegates then withdrew, but it would appear they did not give an accurate account of their interview to their comrades, who were waiting for them in the Place St Sulpice. On the contrary, they stated that M. Marie called them slaves. The labourers then commenced shouting "Down with Marie!" "Down with the executive commission!" "Down with the assembly!"

Some of them attempted to force into the church of St Sulpice, but fortunately the gates were closed in time to prevent them. Thence they proceeded to the quays, by the streets Vieux-Colombier, St Dominique and Du Bac, singing "We will remain! We will remain!" They next proceeded to St Marceau, their numbers being increased by crowds of idlers.

They stationed themselves near the Barriere du Trone, crying "Vive Napoleon!" "Vive l'emperuer!".

Between eight and nine o'clock, much alarm prevailed, in consequence of a body of at least 5,000 workmen, with a flag, having marched from the Pantheon to the quay of the Hotel de Ville, and thence to the Faubourg du Temple, with the intention, as it was believed, of forming a junction with the workmen of the neighbourhood of the Temple and St Antoine.

As measures of precaution, the national guards were privately summoned at their houses to be ready to march if required. Considerable detachments of troops were assembled at Luxembourg. A squadron of dragoons and several companies of the line, the gendarmerie and the national guard, gathered on the open square before the Hotel de Ville. A battalion of the line was stationed in the courtyard of the prefecture of police.

The Palace de Justice was guarded by the garde mobile, and the hall of the national assembly was filled with troops. The government had previously taken the precaution to place a battalion of infantry and two squadrons of cavalry, in front of the national assembly. The body of the building was occupied by troops of the line.

The neighbourhood of the Hotel de Ville and of the Palace of the Luxembourg was crowded with workmen, but no violence was attempted.