Most of the telegrams we print this morning carry us no further than Wednesday night. It is clear, however, that almost immediately after the expiration of the ultimatum the Boers began a forward movement into Natal. Laing's Nek, which is a few miles on the Natal side of the border, was occupied on Wednesday night. The nearest station to Laing's Nek on the south side is Ingogo, quite twenty miles away, and Newcastle, a fair-sized town, is fifteen miles further on. Ingogo and Newcastle would probably be occupied without resistance yesterday: but no positive news to this effect has arrived. Newcastle was Sir George Colley's base in the last Boer war, and the country between this town and Laing's Nek was the scene of all his reverses. At Ingogo Sir George Colley fought an engagement to secure his communications with Newcastle from Mount Prospect. The line passes Majuba Hill on the left before entering the tunnel under the battlefield of Laing's Nek. There is no news of any movement from the Orange Free State by the Drakensberg Passes. The occupation of Besters by a force of Boers advancing through Van Reenens Pass which was reported yesterday was doubtless mere intelligent anticipation of events.

The British forces still remain entrenched at Ladysmith and Dundee, where they will probably await the Boer attack. Dundee is some thirty miles south of Newcastle, so that even if the Boer forces pushed forward at the rate of fifty miles a day - a rate which they frequently attained in the last war - they might conceivably come into collision with the British outposts this morning. The Boer advance, however, will probably be very much slower, and the first collision may not take place for a day or two days later.

It would be out of keeping with the usual procedures of the Boers to make a direct attack on the entrenched camps near Dundee and at Ladysmith. If they decide on aggressive measures they are more likely to resort to raids on the British communications south. It would be in keeping with the traditions of Boer warfare if the Buffalo River were crossed by De Jager's Drift, or even Rorke's Drift in the rear of Dundee. A telegram states that scouts are watching the Wakkerstroom road, which is deemed of considerable strategic importance. Of equal importance are the drifts across the Buffalo from Utrecht and Vryheid.

There is no news from the western frontier later than Wednesday. It has been suggested that the apparent Boer concentration on Natal is merely a feint to conceal their real attack on the west, and that the town that is in real danger is not Newcastle, Dundee, or Ladysmith, but Mafeking. Mafeking is probably the weakest point in the system of defence, but in no sense is it a strategic position, and the results of its capture would not justify the concentration of a large number of troops against it. Further, Mafeking, standing as it does in the centre of a plain, does not favour the Boer tactics, and although defended by a numerically small body of men - Colonel Baden Powell's force is probably not more than 600 strong, - it is probably much stronger than a better-defended town in a country that afforded plenty of cover.